README.md, before:

# Topics in ITP: Contributing to ml5.js (Research)

This course is a studio-oriented seminar where students will actively participate in the evolution of the ml5.js open source project. The structure of this course is inspired by initiatives such as the Processing Foundation Fellowship and Google Summer of Code.

This is a research course, which is different structures compared to normal courses. The class offers a structure and resources for your own research, as opposed to a more typical curriculum.

- [Details and Application Process Archive](<https://github.com/ml5js/ml5-next-gen/wiki/Topics-in-ITP:-Contributing-to-ml5.js-(Research)>)

| Details      | &nbsp;                                                    |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Time | Wednesdays 9:30am-12pm every other week, starting 1/31/24 |
| Location     | TBD                                                       |
| Contact      | [daniel.shiffman@nyu.edu](mailto:daniel.shiffman@nyu.edu) |
| Office Hours | (see email for calendar link)                             |

## Documentation

The academic requirement for this class is a documention of each step of the research. Every other week, you are expected to add resources, notes, and documentation of your process and outcomes. The final project for the class is a "research report" documenting and summarizing your work over the form of the semester.

## Schedule

### 1: January 31, 2024

- Welcome and introductions
- Create a [project plan based on the template](https://github.com/ml5js/research-studio-s24/blob/main/projects/template.md) and add it to the [projects directory](https://github.com/ml5js/research-studio-s24/tree/main/projects).

### 2: February 14, 2024

- ml5.js development overview

### 3: February 28, 2024

- ml5.js website overview

### 4: March 13, 2024

- transformers.js guest presentation
- small group meetings and project updates

### 5: March 27, 2024

- progress presentations
- small group discussions and individual meetings

### 6: April 10, 2024

- independent work

### 7: April 17, 2024

- final presentations

## Evaluation

- Please read [ITP's policy on pass/fail](http://help.itp.nyu.edu/academic-policies/pass-fail)
- You are required to attend all class meetings and submit all weekly assignments and a final project.
- Grading (pass/fail) will be based on a combination of factors:
  - Attendance, participation in class discussion, and engagement in other students' projects (30%)
  - Quality of assignments (50%)
  - Final Project (20%)

## Community Guidelines

Please read and review the [ITP/IMA Community Commitments](https://itpnyu.github.io/ITP-IMA-Code-of-Conduct/).

## Statement of Academic Integrity

Plagiarism is presenting someone else’s work as though it were your own. More specifically, plagiarism is to present as your own: A sequence of words quoted without quotation marks from another writer or a paraphrased passage from another writer’s work or facts, ideas or images composed by someone else.

## Statement of Principle

The core of the educational experience at the Tisch School of the Arts is the creation of original academic and artistic work by students for the critical review of faculty members. It is therefore of the utmost importance that students at all times provide their instructors with an accurate sense of their current abilities and knowledge in order to receive appropriate constructive criticism and advice. Any attempt to evade that essential, transparent transaction between instructor and student through plagiarism or cheating is educationally self-defeating and a grave violation of Tisch School of the Arts community standards. For all the details on plagiarism, please refer to page 10 of the Tisch School of the Arts, Policies and Procedures Handbook, which can be found online at: http://students.tisch.nyu.edu/page/home.html

## Statement on Accessibility

Please feel free to make suggestions to your instructor about ways in which this class could become more accessible to you. Academic accommodations are available for students with documented disabilities. Please contact the Moses Center for Students with Disabilities at 212 998-4980 for further information.
Statement on Counseling and Wellness

## Statement on Counseling and Wellness

Your health and safety are a priority at NYU. If you experience any health or mental health issues during this course, we encourage you to utilize the support services of the 24/7 NYU Wellness Exchange 212-443-9999. Also, all students who may require an academic accommodation due to a qualified disability, physical or mental, please register with the Moses Center 212-998-4980. Please let your instructor know if you need help connecting to these resources.

## Statement on Title IX

Tisch School of the Arts to dedicated to providing its students with a learning environment that is rigorous, respectful, supportive and nurturing so that they can engage in the free exchange of ideas and commit themselves fully to the study of their discipline. To that end Tisch is committed to enforcing University policies prohibiting all forms of sexual misconduct as well as discrimination on the basis of sex and gender. Detailed information regarding these policies and the resources that are available to students through the Title IX office can be found by using the following link: [Title IX at NYU](https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/equal-opportunity/title9.html).

Commit message:

move projects to main README

README.md, after:

# Topics in ITP: Contributing to ml5.js (Research)

This course is a studio-oriented seminar where students will actively participate in the evolution of the ml5.js open source project. The structure of this course is inspired by initiatives such as the Processing Foundation Fellowship and Google Summer of Code.

This is a research course, which is different structures compared to normal courses. The class offers a structure and resources for your own research, as opposed to a more typical curriculum.

- [Details and Application Process Archive](<https://github.com/ml5js/ml5-next-gen/wiki/Topics-in-ITP:-Contributing-to-ml5.js-(Research)>)

| Details      | &nbsp;                                                    |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Time | Wednesdays 9:30am-12pm every other week, starting 1/31/24 |
| Location     | TBD                                                       |
| Contact      | [daniel.shiffman@nyu.edu](mailto:daniel.shiffman@nyu.edu) |
| Office Hours | (see email for calendar link)                             |

## Documentation

The academic requirement for this class is a documention of each step of the research. Every other week, you are expected to add resources, notes, and documentation of your process and outcomes. The final project for the class is a "research report" documenting and summarizing your work over the form of the semester.

## Spring 2024 Projects

- AI Research
  - Dror - [Context ml5](dror.md) - an AI powered learning platform that teaches creatives to use ml5
  - Andrew -
- Audio
  - Tres - [Generative Audio in ml5.js](tres_proposal.md) - Researching suitable machine learning models for audio generation in the browser
  - Spencer -
- Speculative Website Enhancements
  - Alan Ren - [ml5.js Website Functionality Enhancement and Examples with Built-in Editor](alanren.md) - Enhance the ml5.js website and built-in code editor.
  - Xiaozao Wang - [Interactive Machine Learning for Beginners](Xiaozao_Wang.md) - Help beginners understand how machine learning works behind the scene through interactive web materials.
- Documentation and Accessibility
  - Myrah Sarwar - [Increasing Accessibility](msarwar-proposal.md) - Improve readability and accessibility of documentation on the ml5.js website.
  - Jack B. Du - [Machine Learning Tutorials for Absolute Beginners](jackbdu-proposal.md) - Creating beginner-friendly educational materials fostering creative explorations with ml5.js.
- Datasets and Bias
  - Neeti - [Opinionated](neeti_proposal.md) - Developing a self-assessment tool to mitigate bias in ml5.js.
  - Anya - [Ethics of the Datasets](anya_proposal.md) - Delving into the datasets supporting a ml5.js model and explore avenues for enhancing the library's documentation.

## Schedule

### 1: January 31, 2024

- Welcome and introductions
- Create a [project plan based on the template](https://github.com/ml5js/research-studio-s24/blob/main/projects/template.md) and add it to the [projects directory](https://github.com/ml5js/research-studio-s24/tree/main/projects).

### 2: February 14, 2024

- ml5.js development overview

### 3: February 28, 2024

- ml5.js website overview

### 4: March 13, 2024

- transformers.js guest presentation
- small group meetings and project updates

### 5: March 27, 2024

- progress presentations
- small group discussions and individual meetings

### 6: April 10, 2024

- independent work

### 7: April 17, 2024

- final presentations

## Evaluation

- Please read [ITP's policy on pass/fail](http://help.itp.nyu.edu/academic-policies/pass-fail)
- You are required to attend all class meetings and submit all weekly assignments and a final project.
- Grading (pass/fail) will be based on a combination of factors:
  - Attendance, participation in class discussion, and engagement in other students' projects (30%)
  - Quality of assignments (50%)
  - Final Project (20%)

## Community Guidelines

Please read and review the [ITP/IMA Community Commitments](https://itpnyu.github.io/ITP-IMA-Code-of-Conduct/).

## Statement of Academic Integrity

Plagiarism is presenting someone else’s work as though it were your own. More specifically, plagiarism is to present as your own: A sequence of words quoted without quotation marks from another writer or a paraphrased passage from another writer’s work or facts, ideas or images composed by someone else.

## Statement of Principle

The core of the educational experience at the Tisch School of the Arts is the creation of original academic and artistic work by students for the critical review of faculty members. It is therefore of the utmost importance that students at all times provide their instructors with an accurate sense of their current abilities and knowledge in order to receive appropriate constructive criticism and advice. Any attempt to evade that essential, transparent transaction between instructor and student through plagiarism or cheating is educationally self-defeating and a grave violation of Tisch School of the Arts community standards. For all the details on plagiarism, please refer to page 10 of the Tisch School of the Arts, Policies and Procedures Handbook, which can be found online at: http://students.tisch.nyu.edu/page/home.html

## Statement on Accessibility

Please feel free to make suggestions to your instructor about ways in which this class could become more accessible to you. Academic accommodations are available for students with documented disabilities. Please contact the Moses Center for Students with Disabilities at 212 998-4980 for further information.
Statement on Counseling and Wellness

## Statement on Counseling and Wellness

Your health and safety are a priority at NYU. If you experience any health or mental health issues during this course, we encourage you to utilize the support services of the 24/7 NYU Wellness Exchange 212-443-9999. Also, all students who may require an academic accommodation due to a qualified disability, physical or mental, please register with the Moses Center 212-998-4980. Please let your instructor know if you need help connecting to these resources.

## Statement on Title IX

Tisch School of the Arts to dedicated to providing its students with a learning environment that is rigorous, respectful, supportive and nurturing so that they can engage in the free exchange of ideas and commit themselves fully to the study of their discipline. To that end Tisch is committed to enforcing University policies prohibiting all forms of sexual misconduct as well as discrimination on the basis of sex and gender. Detailed information regarding these policies and the resources that are available to students through the Title IX office can be found by using the following link: [Title IX at NYU](https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/equal-opportunity/title9.html).
